COURSERA : Course Projet Analysis 

Guillaume Bouillard
à rendre pour le 25/05/2020

In the aim of creating a predictive model involving the "classe" variable given in the instructions, I separated my work in 12 different steps.
Here are my comments and my analysis about each step of my work :
  
Step1: Load the training and testing data.
Notes : We needed to load those data under the csv format, and the computation "read.csv" is very useful for this.
  
Step2: Remove NA data because they are useless.
Notes : Indeed, we saw when we presented the dimensions of the training and the testing sets tha there were too many data which were not useful.
  
Step3: Remove time data because they are useless.
Notes : Note related to the classe variable we are interested in.
  
Step4: Convert factors to integers.
Notes : Necessear step before we can explore the database.
  
Step5: Obtain training and test sets from the training set.
Notes : Indeed, the test set provided had to be used as a validation set. For this reason, we had to use the training set in the aim of obtening a test and a training set.
  
Step6: Find correlations with "classe".
Notes : Once it is done, we can interest ourselves directly to the correlations between the variables and look for some features which would be significant in our analysis of "classe".
Nevertheless the best two correlations we obtained were not very significant (a little above 0.3).
  
Step7: Test the most correlated features as linear predictors.
Notes : Linear Regression is a very good model for predictions, but it was not enough to complete our task.
  
Step8: Find features correlated with each other.
Notes : The necessity of this step is well explained at Step9.
  
Step9: Reduce the number of features with PCA.
Notes : By extracting some features which are too much correlated with each other, we are in fact increasing the accurancy of our predictive model.
  
Step10: Use Random Forest with 200 trees in the aim of reducing the error rate.
Notes : Everything is already describes. 

Step11: Find which of the four models is the best.
Notes : Comparison of figures.
  
Step12: Choose the second model which presents the best accuracy (98.7%) and error rate (0.23%) and present it.
Notes : This is why we conclude by using this model as our predictive model of the "classe" variable, even if the results of the four models are quite similar.
